In the Kerbal Space Program, large sprawling bases aren't always the best solution. Why? It comes down to terrain. In the game, uneven terrain can cause issues when loading a base into the scene. Without warning, colliders might collide with the ground and cause parts of the base to explode. [Kerbal Joint Reinforcement](http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/index.php?/topic/50911-105-kerbal-joint-reinforcement-v314-62215/) definitely helps, but eventually the Kraken might get you. Not all terrain is bad; many locations on Duna and Minmus, for instance, can handle large bases. But for those locations where large bases don't work and suddenly explode when loaded, or for those locations where just dropping a foundation part (Saddle, Switchback, etc) immediately explode, what do you do? With Pathfinder, you have a few options.  
  
# Send A Probe
When checking out a potential site for your base, send a probe or crewed scout to the site and look around at the terrain. Good spots are ones that are relatively flat or at least areas that have the same slope.  Once you find a potential spot, EVA and drop a test part like a Saddle or Switchback. If it doesn’t explode, then you might have a good spot for a base.  

#Don’t Bolt The Saddle To The Ground
Tests have shown that with large bases, if you bolt a Saddle to the ground, eventually it will collide with the ground during base loading and explode, tossing your base into the air in a rather amusing/frustrating fashion. Consider simply dropping the Saddle onto the ground without bolting it into place if you’re planning a large base.

# Land A Core Module
If a desired location causes parts pulled from your inventory to explode when dropped to the ground, consider sending a mission centered around the HP-3 Drifter module. The Drifter is designed as a component of a lander that you can attach inflatable parts to, and have the resources to inflate and configure them. Just make sure that the Drifter is resting on the surface to ensure that your inflatable modules don’t hang in mid air.

#Create Distributed Bases
Smaller bases are less likely to invite the Kraken over for lunch, but they make it harder to complete the mod’s resource production chains. Fortunately, Pathfinder’s resource distribution system allows you to create [[Distributed Bases|Distributed-Bases]]. Distributed bases are groups of small bases that share resources and work together to explore an area and utilize its resources. This is conceptually similar to what you see in NASA’s [Mars Exploration Zones](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94bIW7e1Otg) video. As long as the base’s distributors are enabled and their resources are unlocked, distributors will automatically share resources to any other distributor within physics range.